All right I've got a question for you.
I have a simple expression I'm combining or hand and equality greater than I have a variable called
X.
It's set to seven.
And my question is what does this evaluate to.
And the reason I'm asking is that it has to do with operator precedents.
So this will be a very quick video but it's very important when we're working with all operators as
we've already seen with addition subtraction multiplication division.
Certain operators have precedence over others for example.
Division happens before subtraction.
That also applies with logical operators and it applies with operators like this one here greater than
a logical guess would be to assume it goes from left to right.
So we would have X equals seven.
Well that's true.
Then we have true or X equals three that's false.
So this whole thing since we have the order right there this whole thing becomes true.
And then we have true and X greater than 10.
Well that's not the case.
Right.
X is seven.
So that's false.
So then the whole thing becomes false.
That's what you might think the answer is.
But if we actually look and we pasted in the answer is true.
And the reason for this is because the and operator takes precedence over or.
So this is going to run first and it's going to look for a left and a right and you can think of it
as this right here.
So is X equal to three.
Nope.
So that's false X greater than 10.
So the whole thing is false.
Only one part needed to be false.
So this is false or true which is going to give us true false or true.
We need one side to be true.
If we wanted the logic to actually work the way that we thought it did from left to right we need to
use parentheses to group this.
We want this to run first and if we run that you'll see we get false because now we're checking this
first this thing evaluates to true and then this thing evaluates to false and the whole thing becomes
false rather than what we had here.
So the order does matter when we're working with these operators especially at the logical ones.
This is the rough order.
This is the exact order logical knot is going to run first then logical and then or it can be confusing
to remember all of this and keep track of it.
So if you ever have any doubt put parentheses in their parentheses will trump everything.
And it makes it clearer how things are supposed to run.
There's no shame in adding extra parents and if you go to M.D. end it's kind of an interesting chart.
There is a table that shows the precedence of every single operator and you can see at the very top
the highest precedence is parentheses that always wins.
That always runs first.
And as we scroll down we can see we encounter logical not and that comes before logical and which is
all the way down here.
And the logical or so and before or and not before both of those.
And this also explains why something like this works X less than three and X greater than one.
This is an operator and this is an operator.
These are going to run first.
So this on the left runs this on the right runs and then and does its thing.
So we know that because we've been using and for a while at this point and we've seen how it works.
But this chart explains that as you can see if I scroll down greater than less than all those operators
come first before and and or.
All right.
So that's it for this video.
I just wanted to make that clear.
There is an order and it can be confusing to remember.
So if you ever have any doubts add in parentheses it also makes it clearer for anyone else who's reading
it because not all developers happen to remember that order off the top of their head either.